Let’s explore the interpolation feature, a central component of PyAnalySeries
Thanks to the application’s interactivity, defining an interpolation becomes a
simple and intuitive process!
Let’s consider a real use case.
The example files are available in the installation directory.
First, open the files.
You can load multiple files, referred to as WorkSheets in
the application.
The format is based on the open.
xlsx standard.
Open the two files as shown in the video.
Now select the variables to interpolate, along with their reference
series — here, delta C 13 and delta O 18
Use the Control key to select multiple series.
The selection order does not matter, but for clarity, we
will choose the reference first.
Open the interpolation window.
In practice, this consists of identifying correspondences between two series
This is where interactivity becomes essential.
You can place tie points either on transitions or directly
on data points.
We now have four series selected.
Start with delta O 18.
Define the reference and the series to interpolate using the
selection controls.
Identify similar transition zones.
Hold Shift and click to place the vertical dashed line
in each window.
Then press C to connect them.
This creates a pair of corresponding points — called pointers
Select another transition and repeat the operation.
Once two pairs are defined, the interpolation appears automatically.
Press Z, or enable “ Show interpolated curve ”, to
toggle its display.
You can also compare interpolation methods — linear or polynomial
— and observe their effect.
Now refine the interpolation by placing a pointer directly on
a data point.
Hold Control and click on the point.
Repeat this on the reference series, then connect the two
pointers.
In short: Shift-click places a free pointer.
Control-click snaps to a data point.
To undo the last connection, click “ Remove last connection
” or press U.
To delete a specific connection, hover over it — it
turns red — then press X.
Press uppercase X to remove all pointers.
You can review all pointer values in the “ Pointers
” tab.
In the “ Pointers plot ” tab, you can visualize
X2 as a function of X1, along with the gradient
If X2 is time and X1 is depth, this gradient
represents the sedimentation rate.
During the process, you may need to switch variables to
refine the alignment.
Switch to delta C 13.
Define a new correspondence and connect the points.
Then switch back to delta O 18.
This iterative workflow allows you to progressively improve the interpolation
Let’s now look at the result produced by an experienced
user.
Once satisfied, you can save either the interpolation or the
interpolation and the current interpolated series.
You can also load an existing pointer file to refine
or adjust your interpolation.
In the next step, we will see how to apply
this interpolation to a set of series.